.TH std::chrono::zoned_time 3 "2020.03.24" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::zoned_time \- std::chrono::zoned_time

.SH Synopsis

Defined in header <chrono>
template <
class Duration,                                    \fI(since C++20)\fP
class TimeZonePtr = const std::chrono::time_zone*
> class zoned_time;

The class zoned_time represents a logical pairing of a time zone and a std::chrono::time_point whose resolution is Duration.
An invariant of zoned_time is that it always refers to a valid time zone and represents an existing and unambiguous time point in that time zone. Consistent with this invariant, zoned_time has no move constructor or move assignment operator; attempts to move a zoned_time will perform a copy.
The program is ill-formed if Duration is not a specialization of std::chrono::duration.
The template parameter TimeZonePtr allows users to supply their own time zone pointer types and further customize the behavior of zoned_time via std::chrono::zoned_traits. Custom time zone types need not support all the operations supported by std::chrono::time_zone, only those used by the functions actually called on the zoned_time.
TimeZonePtr must be MoveConstructible. Move-only TimeZonePtrs are allowed but difficult to use, as the zoned_time will be immovable and it is not possible to access the stored TimeZonePtr.

.SH Member types


Member type Definition
duration    std::common_type_t<Duration, std::chrono::seconds>


.SH Member functions


                    constructs a zoned_time
constructor         \fI(public member function)\fP
                    assigns value to a zoned_time
operator=           \fI(public member function)\fP
                    obtains a copy of the time zone pointer
get_time_zone       \fI(public member function)\fP
                    obtains the stored time point as a local_time
operator_local_time \fI(public member function)\fP
get_local_time
                    obtains the stored time point as a sys_time
operator_sys_time   \fI(public member function)\fP
get_sys_time
                    obtain information about the time zone at the stored time point
get_info            \fI(public member function)\fP


Nonmember functions


           compares two zoned_time objects
operator== \fI(function template)\fP
operator!=
           outputs a zoned_time into a stream
operator<< \fI(function template)\fP
           outputs a zoned_time into a stream according to the provided format
to_stream  \fI(function template)\fP


Deduction_guides




