.TH std::bitset<N>::reference 3 "2020.03.24" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::bitset<N>::reference \- std::bitset<N>::reference

.SH Synopsis

  class reference;

  The std::bitset class includes std::bitset::reference as a publicly-accessible nested class. This class is used as a proxy object to allow users to interact with individual bits of a bitset, since standard C++ types (like references and pointers) are not built with enough precision to specify individual bits.
  The primary use of std::bitset::reference is to provide an l-value that can be returned from operator[].
  Any reads or writes to a bitset that happen via a std::bitset::reference potentially read or write to the entire underlying bitset.

.SH Member functions


                constructs the reference. Accessible only to std::bitset itself
  constructor   (private member function)
                destroys the reference
  destructor    \fI(public member function)\fP
                assigns a bool to the referenced bit
  operator=     \fI(public member function)\fP
                returns the referenced bit
  operator bool \fI(public member function)\fP
                returns inverted referenced bit
  operator~     \fI(public member function)\fP
                flips the referenced bit
  flip          \fI(public member function)\fP


   std::bitset<N>::reference::~reference


  ~reference();

  Destroys the reference.

   std::bitset<N>::reference::operator=


  reference& operator=( bool x );                              \fI(until C++11)\fP
  reference& operator=( bool x ) noexcept;             \fB(1)\fP     \fI(since C++11)\fP
  reference& operator=( const reference& x );              \fB(2)\fP               \fI(until C++11)\fP
  reference& operator=( const reference& x ) noexcept;                       \fI(since C++11)\fP

  Assigns a value to the referenced bit.

.SH Parameters


  x - value to assign


.SH Return value

  *this

   std::bitset<N>::reference::operator bool


  operator bool() const;           \fI(until C++11)\fP
  operator bool() const noexcept;  \fI(since C++11)\fP

  Returns the value of the referenced bit.

.SH Parameters

  \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

  The referenced bit.

   std::bitset<N>::reference::operator~


  bool operator~() const;           \fI(until C++11)\fP
  bool operator~() const noexcept;  \fI(since C++11)\fP

  Returns the inverse of the referenced bit.

.SH Parameters

  \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

  The inverse of the referenced bit.

   std::bitset<N>::reference::flip


  reference& flip();           \fI(until C++11)\fP
  reference& flip() noexcept;  \fI(since C++11)\fP

  Inverts the referenced bit.

.SH Parameters

  \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

  *this

.SH See also


             accesses specific bit
  operator[] \fI(public member function)\fP




