.TH std::pmr::pool_options 3 "2020.03.24" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::pmr::pool_options \- std::pmr::pool_options

.SH Synopsis

Defined in header <memory_resource>
struct pool_options;                 \fI(since C++17)\fP

std::pmr::pool_options is a set of constructor options for pool resources including std::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource and std::pmr::unsynchronized_pool_resource.

Data members


Member                                   Meaning

std::size_t max_blocks_per_chunk;        The maximum number of blocks that will be allocated at once from the upstream std::pmr::memory_resource to replenish the pool. If the value of max_blocks_per_chunk is zero or is greater than an implementation-defined limit, that limit is used instead. The implementation may choose to use a smaller value than is specified in this field and may use different values for different pools.


std::size_t                              The largest allocation size that is required to be fulfilled using the pooling mechanism. Attempts to allocate a single block larger than this threshold will be allocated directly from the upstream std::pmr::memory_resource. If largest_required_pool_block is zero or is greater than an implementation-defined limit, that limit is used instead. The implementation may choose a pass-through threshold larger than specified in this field.
largest_required_pool_block;




.SH See also



synchronized_pool_resource   a thread-safe std::pmr::memory_resource for managing allocations in pools of different block sizes
                             \fI(class)\fP
\fI(C++17)\fP

unsynchronized_pool_resource a thread-unsafe std::pmr::memory_resource for managing allocations in pools of different block sizes
                             \fI(class)\fP
\fI(C++17)\fP




